                                                                                      WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook




ABOUT INTERNATIONAL WELL BUILDING
INSTITUTE™
The International WELL Building Institute™ (IWBI™) is leading the global movement to transform our
buildings and communities in ways that help people thrive.

IWBI delivers the cutting-edge WELL Building Standard™, the leading global rating system and the
first to be focused exclusively on the ways that buildings, and everything in them, can improve our
comfort, drive better choices, and generally enhance, not compromise, our health and wellness.




ABOUT PROMETRIC
As a global leader in test development, testing delivery, and candidate services, Prometric partners
with the world’s top credentialing and licensure organizations to design and deliver leading exam
programs that help individuals advance their careers and serve their communities. Prometric’s
integrated, end-to-end solutions provide exam development, management, and distribution that set
the industry standard in quality, security, and service excellence. Prometric leverages its proprietary
platform, advanced technologies, and vast operational experience to deliver an exceptional user
experience on its world-class secure testing network. Today, Prometric paves the industry’s path
forward with new solutions and innovation to ensure reliable access to secure assessments anytime,
anywhere.




WELL AP® Candidate Handbook

Copyright 2022 International WELL Building Institute

Information in this Candidate Handbook represents current policies and procedures. Information in this
Candidate Handbook supersedes information contained in any previously published Handbooks.

All information and guidelines are subject to change.

Please read and understand the entire Candidate Handbook including all policies, procedures and consequences.




                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                   WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook



  REGISTERING FOR YOUR EXAM ................................................................... 4
      Registration
      Eligibility Requirements
      Audits
      Testing Accommodations
      Exam Registration Fees
  THE EXAM............................................................................................................. 6
      Exam Development
      Exam Format
      Exam Language
      Exam Maintenance

 PRE-EXAM CHECKLIST .....................................................................................8
      Are You Ready?
      Exam Security
      What to Expect at the Test Center
      What to Expect at the Virtual Check In
      Identification Requirements
      Test Center Regulations
      Grounds for Dismissal

AFTER YOUR EXAM ......................................................................................... 11
      Exam Results
      Passing the Exam
      Exam-related Complaints and Exam Content Appeals
      Candidate Confidentiality

EXAM SPECIFICATIONS .................................................................................. 13
      Specifications
      References
      Sample Questions

CONTACT INFORMATION................................................................................ 21
      Prometric
      International WELL Building Institute PBC




                                                                                                                            4
                                                                            WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook

REGISTERING FOR YOUR EXAM

 Registration
 1. Log into your WELL account using your existing site user account or creating a new account if you
    do not have one.

 2. Register for the WELL AP exam by following the instructions on the screen to complete the
    application.

        a. When you register for your exam, make sure your name is entered exactly as it appears on
           the legal ID that you will use when you take your exam. (See Identification Requirements). If
           your account name does not match your legal ID, correct your account name during exam
           registration in your account settings. We do not advise candidates to use a nickname when
           setting up their site user account.

        b. If your native language utilizes non-Roman characters, be sure to enter your name in Roman
           characters when you set-up your site user account and when you register for the exam.
           Make sure to bring identification, such as a passport that includes your name in Roman
           characters, to the test center.

        c. Please note that if the name in which you register for your exam does not match the ID
           you will present at the test center, you must contact IWBI at least 10 days before your
           exam date to change your registration, or you will risk being turned away at the test center
           and forfeit your exam registration fee.

 3. Once you have completed the registration process, you are given a unique eligibility ID (EID) and
    may schedule your exam with Prometric, which is the exam delivery organization for IWBI exams.
    There are now two ways to take your WELL AP exam. You have the option to take your exam either
    at a Prometric Test Center or through a remotely proctored internet-enabled (online) location of
    your choice, by using Prometrics’ ProProctor tool.

        a. if you would like to schedule your exam in a physical test center, click here.

        b. If you would like to schedule a remotely proctored online exam, you will first need to ensure
           that your computer meets the technical specifications, See (Pre-Exam Checklist below) and
           that the space within which you intend to take your exam meets the testing environment
           requirements. Once you have verified your computer meets the minimum system
           requirements, you can click here to continue scheduling your remote proctored exam.

 4. On the Schedule Appointment screen, read through the instructions, and click on the green
    forward arrow button located on the right-hand side at the bottom of the page, to proceed to the
    next screen. Read through the Policy Notice and answer the age and consent questions at the
    bottom of the page and click the green forward arrow. You will then be asked to enter your exam
    eligibility ID (EID), and the first four characters of your last name you used when you registered.

 5. Once you have successfully scheduled your exam appointment you will see a confirmation number
    on the screen and you will also receive an automated email from Prometric with important details of
    your exam appointment – please be sure to read the email in its entirety.

 6. Record your 16 digit confirmation number. You will need this confirmation number to confirm,
    cancel, or reschedule your appointment through the Prometric website.

 7. Once you have scheduled an exam, please print your confirmation notice from Prometric. Keep
    your confirmation notice for any communication with Prometric about your exam. You are not
    required to bring this information when you check-in for your scheduled exam, though it may help



                                                                                                           5
                                                                           WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook
   should you require any assistance.

8. Once you register and pay for your exam, you have 12 months to schedule and take your exam
   session. If you fail your first exam attempt you may register and pay again in the same way as initial
   registration. After three unsuccessful attempts however, you must wait 90 days before submitting a
   new registration and payment. Candidates must pay the registration fee for each exam attempt.

9. You can confirm, cancel, or reschedule an exam on the Prometric website. In addition, if you
   have scheduled an exam at a test center and would like to reschedule it for a remotely
   proctored online exam, you will first need to cancel your exam at the test center, and then
   follow the link to schedule a remotely proctored online exam.

10. Rescheduling and cancellation policy:

       a. You may request a 100% refund on your WELL AP exam registration fee from IWBI within 90
          days of your initial purchase. After 90 days no refunds will be permitted.

       b. You may reschedule or cancel your exam up to 30 days prior to your exam without
          incurring a rescheduling fee from Prometric.

       c. If you reschedule or cancel your exam fewer than 30 days but more than three days
          before the scheduled date, you will be charged a $50 fee paid to Prometric.

       d. You cannot reschedule your exam after midnight on the third day before the scheduled
          appointment. (For example, Wednesday appointments cannot be rescheduled after
          Sunday, 11:59 p.m.)

       e. If you miss your exam date or fail to reschedule two days prior to the exam, you forfeit the
          entire exam registration fee. Learn more about IWBI’s exam refund/rescheduling policy.

       f.    When you reschedule an exam, you will receive a new confirmation email. If you do not,
             please contact Prometric immediately to confirm that your exam was rescheduled.

       g. All candidates are entitled to one, six month exam ID extension, extension request must be
          made within 12 months of your initial purchase. To request a six month extension please
          contact IWBI customer service.



Prometric rescheduling fees
 Days before scheduled exam          Can I Reschedule?
 date

 30 days or more                     Yes you can reschedule, no fees
                                     apply

 3-29 days                           Yes you can reschedule, less a
                                     $50 cancellation fee paid to
                                     Prometric

 0-2 days                            No, you cannot reschedule




To register and schedule five or more candidates at one time, contact IWBI customer service.



Eligibility Requirements

                                                                                                            6
                                                                            WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook

IWBI recommends that you have exposure to concepts around health, safety and well-being in the
built environment through educational courses, volunteering or work experience prior to testing. In
addition, prior WELL project experience is strongly recommended. Practitioner competency and
project proficiency is tested objectively within the exam.

To be eligible for the WELL AP credential, you must:

a. Be 18 years of age or older

b. Agree to the Disciplinary and Exam Appeals Policy.



Audits
IWBI and GBCI reserve the right to conduct an audit at any time (including prior to application
submission and after credential has been granted) of all current and past exam applications. Any
information contained in your WELL account may be audited and a request for further documentation
of any information or claims submitted by you may be made at any time. IWBI further reserves the right
to take disciplinary or legal action—including but not limited to revocation of credential(s)—in the event
that any conduct discovered during such an audit violates the Disciplinary and Exam Appeals Policy,
IWBI policy, and/or law.


Testing Accommodations
If you have a documented disability that would prevent you from taking the WELL AP exam under
normal testing conditions, you may request accommodations. IWBI complies with the provisions of
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). Under the ADA, entities that administer standardized
examinations must offer the examinations in a place and manner that is accessible to candidates
with disabilities. This may require reasonable modifications to the manner in which the exam is
administered. Prometric, the exam delivery company used by IWBI, will provide candidates
reasonable auxiliary aids and services, except where it may fundamentally alter the validity of the
exam results. Available accommodations include, but are not limited to, a reader, a scribe, and
extended testing time.

If you require testing accommodations, you must indicate this during your registration process by
checking the box that says “Yes, I need testing accommodations.” To be eligible for accommodations,
you and your health care provider each need to complete one form, the Candidate Form and the
Provider Form, to document your disability and need for accommodation. There is no additional
charge for testing accommodations. Please email the completed forms along with your testing
accommodation request to accommodations@iwbi.org. There is no additional charge for testing
accommodations. Each request is evaluated individually.

IWBI reviews this documentation and, if approved, alerts Prometric of the necessary
accommodations. Please allow up to two weeks to receive a reply from IWBI following submission of
your documentation. Once you have requested testing accommodations, you are not able to
schedule an appointment with Prometric until your request is processed. You will be contacted by
email regarding the approval status of your testing accommodations request.


Exam Registration Fees
See wellcertified.com/well-ap/pricing for pricing. Your paid exam registration fee is eligible for only one
exam attempt. You must take your exam within 12 months of registering, or you will forfeit the exam
registration fee and be required to re-register and pay a new fee.




                                                                                                              7
                                                                             WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook



THE EXAM

Exam Development
In partnership with IWBI, Green Business Certification Inc. (GBCI) is managing the exam development
process. GBCI is an ISO/IEC 17024 accredited organization and adheres to best practices in the
development, delivery and maintenance of personnel certification programs like the WELL AP
credential.

A WELL Accredited Professional (AP) is an individual who possesses the knowledge and skills
necessary to support the WELL certification process, including participating in the design and
development process, supporting and encouraging integrated design, managing the application
and certification process and providing advocacy and education for the adoption of WELL. The
development of a valid exam begins with a clear and concise definition of the knowledge, skills and
abilities needed in order to successfully perform the job of a WELL AP. The WELL AP exam is
developed by a global network of Subject Matter Experts and meet the specifications of a job
analysis. The exam specifications are subject to rigorous validation by these experts, which ensures
that the exam is valid, and measures what it is intended to measure. Once the exam is launched the
exam questions are regularly monitored to ensure continued reliability.

The exam assesses your abilities at three cognitive levels: Recall, Application and Analysis.

•     Recall Questions: These questions assess your ability to recall factual material described in the
      exam references.
•     Application Questions: These questions provide you with a novel problem or scenario to solve
      using familiar principles or procedures described in the exam references.
•     Analysis Questions: These questions assess your ability to break the problem down into its
      components to create a solution. You must recognize the different elements of the problem,
      and also evaluate the relationship or interactions of these elements.


Exam Format
The WELL AP exam contains 115 multiple choice questions and is delivered in a two and a half hour period.

The exam has scored questions and unscored questions. All questions are placed randomly
throughout the exam and candidates are not informed of a question’s status, so you should respond
to all questions on the exam. Unscored questions are used to gather data regarding how the question
performs. This data informs the use of the question on future exams.

The WELL AP exam has two embedded documents exam takers can reference throughout the exam.
One embedded document includes the project scenario which will be relevant to answer some exam
questions. The project scenario will NOT be included prior to the exam.

There is a second embedded document which includes reference material from the WELL Building
Standard v2 that is commonly referenced. This may or may not be needed by the candidate. It is not
an indication of the type of questions that will be included in the exam. It is only a reference material.
You can find this content to review ahead of the exam in the Get To Know The New WELL AP Exam.

The exam is computer-based. Exam questions and answer options are displayed on screen. The
computer records your responses and times your exam. You are able to change your answers, skip
questions and flag questions for later review.



                                                                                                             8
                                                                                    WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook

During the exam, you may submit comments on any question(s) believed to contain a technical
error in content by using the comment button located in the navigation bar. In order to challenge
an exam question, you must have commented on the question and provided an explanation of
your concerns. After the exam, within 10 days inform IWBI that you have left comments on your
exam; in your correspondence, be sure to note the email address used to sign up for the exam, as
well as the date on which you took it. You must notify IWBI within 10 days of your exam date that
you have left a comment within your exam.

Be prepared to commit 3 hours for the exam. Total exam time is broken out as follows:


                a.   An optional 15-minute tutorial, the 2.5 hour exam, and an optional 5-minute exit

                     survey.

If you need to take a break before completing your exam, you may do so by raising your hand for
assistance. Testing time is NOT suspended. Be aware that if you exit the test center or end the exam
session by pressing “Finish” within your exam before completing the exam, the exam cannot be
restarted and the exam session and fee are forfeited.

Please note that breaks are not permitted during remote proctored online exams. It is strictly prohibited for you to
be out of the webcam’s field of vision at any point while taking the exam. If you leave your seat during the exam,
except when authorized to leave by the Remote Proctor at the end of the exam, your exam session and fees are
forfeited. A clear water bottle or glass of water is acceptable during a remote exam. If your proctor tells you
otherwise please escalate the situation to IWBI and Prometric.



Exam Language
The exam is only available in English. Additional languages are coming in 2023.

Exam Maintenance
Exams go through a maintenance process, in which the questions are evaluated based on performance;
poorly performing questions are removed and replaced with new questions. Additionally, questions are
reviewed against updates to the WELL Building Standard and WELL Certification Guidebook to ensure that
all questions remain current and valid.

Please check the References section of this handbook for the most current list of exam references.

For a one-week period each year, exams are not offered to accommodate deployment of updated
exams.

The annual maintenance cycle will resume in 2023.



PRE-EXAM CHECKLIST

Are You Ready?
Two Months Before Your Exam (test center of Remote Proctored Online delivery)


a. Ensure that your given name (first name) and surname (last name) in your WELL account matches
   the given name and surname on the identification you will present at the test center. (See
   Identification Requirements below.) If the names do not match, you will not be allowed to test and
   you will forfeit the exam registration fee. If you have any questions, please contact


                                                                                                                       9
                                                                              WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook
   Us.

b. Confirm that the date, time and location of your exam is correct. If it is not, please visit
   prometric.com/iwbi for information about rescheduling or canceling your exam.

For Remote Proctored Online Exams: Five Days Before Exam
a. Review the ProProctor User Guide in preparation for your exam and adjust your testing environment
    accordingly. ProProctor User Guide link is also available in your exam confirmation email received
    after scheduling your remote proctored online exam.
b. Perform a system readiness check and ensure that your computer meets the minimum system
    requirements. If the system readiness check fails, the page will alert you to the failed item and
    prompt you to troubleshoot the error(s) and complete the check again. If you have any questions,
    please contact the Prometric ProProctor Contact Support.
              • Screen Resolution: 1024 x 768 is the minimum resolution required, 1920 x 1080
              recommended
              • Operating System: Windows 8.1 or higher | MacOS 10.13 or higher
              • Web Browser: Latest Google Chrome
              • Webcam Resolution: 640 X 480 pixels External for desktops, Internal for laptops. •
              Microphone: Enabled
              • Download Speed: 500 Kbps or greater
              • Upload Speed: 384 Kbps
              • Only a laptop or desktop computer can be used to take the exam.
              • No dual-monitor configurations are permitted for testing (e.g. a desktop with two
              monitors or a laptop with a separate monitor).
              • Computers must be undocked and have a movable web-camera
c. Download and install the ProProctor application


 Exam Security
To ensure the integrity of the WELL AP exam, you are required to review and accept a nondisclosure
agreement that prohibits any disclosure of exam content:

         a. Exam questions and answers are the exclusive property of IWBI.

         b. Exam questions and answers are protected by copyright law. The exam may not be copied or
            reproduced in part or in whole, by any means whatsoever, including memorization.

         c. Future discussion or disclosure of the content of the exam, orally or in writing, or by any other
            means, is prohibited.

         d. Theft or attempted theft of exam questions is punishable to the fullest extent of the law.

         e. Failure to comply with the agreement will result in forfeiture of your credential.


What to Expect at the Test Center
Plan to arrive at the test center at least 30 minutes prior to your scheduled exam appointment. If you
arrive at the test site after your scheduled exam time, you will lose your seat and forfeit the exam
registration fee.

Upon arrival at the test center, you will be required to show acceptable form(s) of identification




                                                                                                                10
                                                                            WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook



(see Identification Requirements below) and sign in. Next, you will be escorted to a locker to store
your belongings. You will have access to your ID and your locker key for the duration of your exam.
You will then go through a security checkpoint, where you will be asked to empty your pockets;
remove eyeglasses, roll down shirtsleeves, remove watches and fitness trackers/monitors, remove
jewelry*, and roll up pant legs for inspection; and pass through a metal detector. Upon completion of
the enhanced security check-in, you will be escorted to a workstation by test center staff.

*Religious apparel and wedding rings are exempt.

You must remain in your seat during the exam except when authorized to leave by test center staff.
Raise your hand to notify test center staff if:
       a. You experience a problem with your computer

       b. An error message appears on the computer screen (do not clear the message)

       c. You need to take a break (testing time is NOT suspended)

       d. You need the test center staff for any other reason.

Accessing personal effects during the course of your exam is a security infraction and as a result, your
exam session could be voided without refund. Prometric test centers are outfitted with cameras that
record the check-in process and exam experience for each candidate. These recordings may be
viewed by Prometric test center staff and IWBI in the case of suspected security infractions. If you have
a medical condition that may necessitate access to medication (e.g., an insulin pump), you must
submit a Testing Accommodation request for approval from IWBI during exam registration:


If you require a break (e.g., to use the restroom), you must abide by the aforementioned security
policies, and you will be required to repeat the security check before you are permitted to reenter the
testing room.


What to Expect at Virtual Check In
Plan to log on to the Prometric site 30 minutes prior to your scheduled exam appointment. If you
arrive at your virtual check-in after your scheduled exam time, you will forfeit your exam and exam
registration fee.


Upon logging into the Prometric site, you will be prompted to capture a facial image from your
webcam, followed by an image of your government-issued ID. If you experience any technical issues
please contact Prometric ProProctor Contact Support.


Once these steps are completed, you will proceed to meet with a remote Readiness Agent who will
guide you through all the security checks before launching your exam.


The security checks will include verifying acceptable form(s) of identification (see Identification
Requirements below); followed by a comprehensive 360-degree webcam scan of the room and work
surface area. Similar to being at a test center, the Readiness Agent will then ask you to raise your pants
legs above the ankles, empty and turn all pockets inside-out and raise shirt sleeves above the wrists. If
you are wearing eyeglasses, you will be required to remove them for visual inspection to ensure they
don’t contain a recording device. Large jewelry items must be removed due to concerns




                                                                                                             11
                                                                            WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook



over concealed recording devices. If you have long hair that covers your ears, you will be asked to
pull your hair back to ensure nothing is attached to your ear (such as a Bluetooth earpiece). Upon
completion of the virtual security check-in, you may proceed to launch the remote proctored online
exam and meet the Remote Proctor who will be proctoring the exam for its entire duration.
It is strictly prohibited for you to be out of the webcam’s field of vision at any point while taking the
exam. You must remain in your seat during the exam except when authorized to leave by the Remote
Proctor. Contact the Remote Proctor via chat or audio if:
   a. You experience a problem with your computer
    b. An error message appears on the computer screen (do not clear the message)
   c. You need the Remote Proctor for any other reason
Accessing personal effects during the course of your exam is a security infraction, and as a result, your
exam session could be voided without refund. Audio, video and chat messages are recorded
throughout the entire duration of the exam. These recordings may be viewed by Prometric proctoring
staff and IWBI in the case of suspected security infractions. Please remember that it is very important
that you take your exam in a well-lit room with a door that you can close. If someone else comes into
the room while you are taking your exam, privacy laws require that Prometric immediately shut down
your exam, because the individual entering the room has not consented to be recorded. Your exam
results will be voided, and you will forfeit the full exam fee.


Identification Requirements
IWBI, along with Prometric, enforces a strict policy regarding acceptable identification in order to
maintain the integrity and quality of the WELL AP exam and to ensure all candidates have access to a
consistent and fair exam check-in process: All IDs must be plasticized or laminated by the issuing
authority at the time of issue. Your ID must be in the original form it was issued; duplicates or
photocopies will not be accepted.
You are required to provide one form of valid government-issued identification that contains all of the
following:
  a.   Your name, which must exactly match the name you used to register for the exam. Please note:
       The identification that you present to the test center must include your name printed in Roman
       characters and must exactly match the name that you used to register for the exam. IDs with
       names printed solely in non-Roman characters are not acceptable. If you legally only have one
       name, you must contact IWBI and notify them of the discrepancy between the name you used
       to register for your exam and the name printed on your government issued ID at least 10 business
       days prior to your testing date.
  b.   A recent, recognizable photograph that looks like you
  c.   Your signature
  d.   Be unexpired and includes an issue and expiration date


Examples of identification that typically comply with requirements include:

       a. Passport

       b. Driver’s license with a printed signature, including date issues and date of expiration

       c. Current government-issued photo ID with signature, including date issued and date of expiration

       d. Green card, permanent residence card, or H-1B visa

       e.   Military ID that includes date issued and date of expiration



                                                                                                            12
                                                                               WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook

If your identification does not include all four required elements, you must provide secondary
identification (with the same first and last name) that includes the outstanding required elements.
Remember, at the time your secondary identification was issued, the issuing authority must have
laminated it.
   a. For example, India residents presenting an India PAN card or India voter ID that does not
      include a date issued and/or an expiration date must also present a second form of
      identification (with the same first and last name and signature) which does include an
      expiration date. A secondary form of ID could be an unexpired credit card with printed
      signature.

    Unacceptable forms of ID include, but are not limited to:
      a. ID without an expiration date or date of issues

      b. ID with the first and last name printed solely in non-Roman characters

      c. Photocopies or duplicates

      d. Social Security Card

      e. Library card

      f. For India residents: Aadhaar cards


    Prometric Regulations
   You must abide by the Prometric security rules while at the test center. We recommend that you
   review these carefully before your scheduled exam date, since you will be required to agree to them
   before starting your exam. See Prometric FAQs for more information.


    Grounds for Dismissal
   Any candidate who engages in misconduct or does not comply with the test proctor’s warning to
   discontinue inappropriate behavior may be dismissed from the testing environment (test center or
   online), have exam results invalidated or be subject to other sanctions. Fraud, deceit, dishonesty, or
   other irregular behavior in connection with taking the exam is strictly prohibited.

   If you are dismissed from the testing environment, inform IWBI within 10 days of your exam date and
   provide a reason for your behavior. IWBI reviews all instances of dismissal from a test center and makes
   a ruling based on the consideration of your rationale and the Prometric report of the incident. To
   appeal an IWBI ruling, send an email of your formal appeal to IWBI.



   AFTER YOUR EXAM

       Exam Results
       The WELL AP exam is scored on a scale from 125 to 200. A score of 170 or higher is required to pass. Your
       exam score is displayed on screen at the end of the exam and a score report is emailed to you
       following your exam session.


       Within 72 hours of your appointment, your exam results are processed, your WELL Online account is
       updated, and, if applicable, your credential is updated in the WELL Online People directory.


                                                                                                              13
                                                                        WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook




Passing the Exam
Designating Your Credential
As soon as you have passed the WELL AP exam, you can use the title “WELL® AP” and/or the
logo. Your credential will be updated in the WELL People Directory. Please review the WELL AP
section of the WELL Branding Guide, as well as the Marketing and PR Guidelines for the WELL AP
credential for guidance on logo use and WELL AP promotion.

Certificates
Once your exam results have been processed, you can download a copy of your certificate
through your WELL Account.

Credential Maintenance Program
You must fulfill the requirements in order to maintain your credential. Learn more about WELL AP
credential maintenance.


Exam-Related Complaints and Exam Content Appeals
Because of the need for exam security, IWBI does not release exam questions or answers to
candidates. IWBI does not respond to complaints or appeals received more than 10 days
after an individual’s exam date and does not respond to complaints or appeals sent to any
organizations other than IWBI.

If you experience any problems at the Prometric test center or during the remote proctored
online exam, you must inform test center personnel before leaving the test center or the
Remote Proctor prior to ending your remote proctored online exam session. Prometric will
write an Incident Report and make it available to IWBI.

If you wish to submit an exam content appeal, you must submit comments during the exam
on any question(s) believed to contain a technical error in the content. You can use the
comment button located on the navigation bar. In order to challenge an exam question, you
must comment on the question and provide a brief explanation of your concerns during the
exam. After the exam, within 10 days inform IWBI; in your correspondence, be sure to note
your questions and the email address used to sign up for the exam, as well as the date on
which you took it. IWBI reviews your concerns and notifies you of the findings.

IWBI does not modify exam scores under any conditions. In the event of a successful exam
content appeal, you will be given the opportunity to retest; your original exam score will not
be changed.

The only way to earn the WELL AP credential is to earn a passing score on the exam.




                                                                                                      14
                                                                          WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook




Candidate Confidentiality
IWBI recognizes your right to control personal information. Our policies are designed to
safeguard this information from unauthorized disclosure. You can change your preference to
be contacted by updating your personal preferences in your WELL account.

To protect your right to control score distribution, your exam score is released only to you, the
exam taker, and authorized IWBI staff. IWBI does not release exam scores except for use in
research studies that preserve your anonymity. Candidate exam scores always remain
confidential unless released with written consent of a candidate.

Official statistics regarding the WELL AP exam, including all question performance data,
individual data and demographic data, are considered confidential; however, IWBI may
publish aggregate, non-identifying information based on such data.




                                                                                                        15
                                                                      WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook




EXAM SPECIFICATIONS

Exam Specifications
The following outline provides a general description of exam content areas for the WELL AP
exam. Knowledge Domains reflect the WELL Building Standard’s Concepts and certification
process.

The WELL AP exam tests your demonstrated and advanced knowledge in human health and
wellness in the built environment.

► Knowledge Domains

1. Air (11 questions)
Knowledge of:
             a. Types, sources, and acceptable thresholds of indoor air contaminants
             b. Short- and long-term effects of indoor air quality on human health, well-being, and
                 productivity
             c. Design, construction, and operational processes that affect air quality throughout the
                 lifecycle of buildings
             d. Strategies for addressing and monitoring indoor air quality
Skill in:
             a. Analyzing the air quality results from on-site monitoring and laboratory-based tests to
                 inform decision-making
             b. Recommending strategies to prohibit smoking, minimize occupant exposure to
                 secondhand smoke, and reduce smoke pollution
             c. Recommending strategies for mechanical and natural ventilation to dilute human- and
                 product-generated air pollutants
             d. Recommending strategies to mitigate the introduction of construction-related pollutants
                 into indoor air and remediate construction-related indoor air contamination
             e. Recommending strategies that limit sources of air pollution such as combustion and
                 isolate key sources of odors, germs, pollution or humidity
             f. Recommend strategies to mitigate risks from indoor contamination and pollution sources

2. Water (9 questions)
Knowledge of:
            a. Impact of water quality and moisture in buildings on human health
            b. Methods to prevent microbial growth
            c. Health-related and aesthetic water quality thresholds
            d. Causes and effects of excess moisture in buildings
            e. Strategies for hygiene support
Skill in:
            a. Analyzing the water quality results from on-site and laboratory testing to inform
               decision-making
            b. Recommending treatment methods for water quality improvement
            c. Promoting proper hydration and access to drinking water that meets water quality
               thresholds
            d. Recommending protocols for water quality monitoring
            e. Assessing building design strategies and operational procedures intended for effective
               moisture management
            f. Assessing building design and operational procedures for bathroom accommodations,
               hand washing stations, and hygiene amenities



                                                                                                        16
                                                                                  WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook
                        g. Assessing compliance with water safety and management plans

            3. Nourishment (10 questions)
            Knowledge of:
                       a. Impact of nourishment and food sourcing on human health
                       b. Strategies for encouraging healthy and mindful eating habits
                       c. Supportive amenities for food production
                       d. Dietary requirements, nutritional content, and food literacy
                       e. Food labeling indicating certified organic and certified sustainable foods

            Skill in:
                        a. Recommending strategies to increase the availability and accessibility of healthy food
                           and beverage options
                        b. Providing guidance for the inclusion of nutritional labeling and allergy information on
                           foods and beverages
                        c. Encouraging the selection and consumption of healthier food choices through design,
                           advertising, messaging, and policies
                        d. Recommending strategies to reduce overconsumption and promote healthy portion sizes
                        e. Recommending strategies for providing nutrition education and promoting food literacy
                        f. Recommending strategies to support mindful eating through design and operations
                        g. Assessing policies and direct actions to accommodate individuals' diverse dietary needs

            4. Light (9 questions)
            Knowledge of:
                         a. Effects of circadian photoentrainment
                         b. Lighting guidelines for space types and activities
                         c. Strategies to control glare
                         d. Impacts of color rendering and flicker of artificial lights
            Skill in:
                         a. Recommending strategies for appropriate light exposure in indoor environments
                         b. Recommending strategies to support circadian and psychological health through
                            artificial lighting, daylight exposure, and outdoor views
                         c. Analyzing reports from daylight simulations to inform decision-making
                         d. Recommending strategies for a visually balanced and comfortable lighting environment
                         e. Recommending lighting strategies that take into account occupant preferences and
                            needs

            5. Movement (7 questions)
            Knowledge of:
                     a. Impact of physical activity and ergonomics on human health
                     b. Design-based and operational strategies to promote movement through building
                          features
                     c. Ergonomic workstations and active furnishings
                     d. Factors of site selection that can promote movement and physical activity
Skill in:
                        a. Recommending design strategies and amenities to support active occupants and visitors
                        b. Assisting decision makers in shaping policies and implementing initiatives that promote
                           physical activity and exercise

            6. Thermal Comfort (7 questions)
            Knowledge of:
                       a. Impact of thermal comfort on productivity and satisfaction
                       b. Core thermal comfort parameters and their interdependencies
            Skill in:
                       a. Recommending strategies for enhancing thermal comfort and thermal control
                       b. Recommending ongoing monitoring of thermal comfort parameters using sensors and
                          displays



                                                                                                                17
                                                                       WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook
7. Sound (8 questions)
A. Knowledge of:
             a. Impacts of sound on human health, productivity, and satisfaction
             b. Space planning, design measures, and materials that manage acoustics
             c. Strategies for controlling background noises
             d. Thresholds for background noise levels and reverberation time
B. Skill in:
             a. Recommending strategies and target thresholds to identify, plan for, and prevent issues
                of acoustic disturbance
             b. Assessing documentation of acoustic plans and acoustic zone labels
             c. Recommending strategies to increase the level of sound isolation and speech privacy
                between enclosed spaces
             d. Recommending strategies to meet reverberation time thresholds

8. Materials (9 questions)
Knowledge of:
            a. Impacts of materials and environmental contamination on human health and wellness
            b. Hazardous material ingredients regulations and restrictions
            c. Compounds and chemical classes
Skill in:
            a. Assessing product documentation to ensure compliance with material requirements
            b. Providing guidance on implementing third-party assessments of project environment and
                site
            c. Recommending strategies for creating transparency for stakeholders in material
                ingredients
            d. Recommending strategies for managing hazardous waste
            e. Providing guidance for operational practices and policies for pesticide use, cleaning
                products and protocols, and other maintenance practices

9. Mind (9 questions)
Knowledge of:
            a. Relationship between human health and psychological and social well-being.
            b. Sources of stress and stress management strategies
            c. Interventions for improving the cognitive and emotional health of occupants and
               employees
            d. Relationship between mental and physical health
            e. Relationship between nature, wellness, and productivity
            f. Health effects and interventions for addictive or abused substances
Skill in:
            a. Recommending strategies to promote mental well-being through the provision of
               policies, programs, and trainings
            b. Promoting integration of natural elements and patterns throughout the project
            c. Promoting connection to culture, place, art, and human delight through design
            d. Recommending strategies to design restorative spaces and programming


10. Community (9 questions)
Knowledge of:
          a. The relationship between community programs, policies, and public health
          b. Emergency preparedness plans
          c. Strategies for addressing disparities and promoting diversity, inclusion, and community
              well-being
          d. Occupant surveys and survey implementation
Skill in:
          a. Facilitating provision of education for stakeholders
          b. Coordinating the creation of a health-oriented project mission
          c. Facilitating a collaborative project process
          d. Coordinating with the design team to integrate universal design principles



                                                                                                          18
                                                                              WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook
                   e. Assessing compliance of health benefits, policies, and services with WELL feature
                      requirements


    11. WELL Certification and WELL Portfolio (12 questions)
    Certification
    Knowledge of:
                a. Registration process for WELL Certification
                b. Eligibility criteria, timeline, and process for certification and performance verification
                c. Roles and responsibilities of project team members, WELL AP, WELL project administrator,
                    owner, and WELL Coaching support team
                d. WELL Building Standard v2 scoring levels and point thresholds
                e. Alternative adherence paths (AAP) and equivalencies
                f. Precertification and recertification process
                g. Synergies and/or tradeoffs between building measures and features
                h. Available pathways for award of innovation

    Skill in:
                a. Managing the documentation process including submissions using the WELL digital
                    platform
                b. Coordinating the certification process with project stakeholders
                c. Managing post-certification requirements
                d. Recommending curative actions in response to non-passing performance verification
                    results
                e. Assessing project compliance with WELL features' applicability and scoring thresholds
    Portfolio Program
    Knowledge of:
                a. WELL Portfolio scope and eligibility requirements
                b. WELL Portfolio scales of documentation and review process within WELL Portfolio
                c. Factors that influence the WELL Portfolio score


References
The core resources for the WELL AP exam are as follows:

●   WELL Building Standard, v2 with Q4 2020 addenda
       ○ WELL beta features are not assessable.
●   WELL Certification Guidebook with Q3-Q4 2020 addenda
       ○ Only processes related to WELL v2 as assessable.
●   WELL Portfolio Guidebook with Q4 2020 addenda
●   Get To Know The New WELL AP Exam Guide




Sample Questions
1. How often must occupants be surveyed and the results be reported on the WELL platform to
comply with the Occupant Survey Feature?

        OPTIONS:

                A. Quarterly

                B. Annually

                C. Every two years




                                                                                                            19
                                                                              WELL AP™ Candidate Handbook

            D. Every three years at recertification

2. The client for a small office building in a suburb of a large city has a goal of promoting connection to
culture, place, art, and human delight through the project design. Which of the following design
strategies should a WELL AP recommend to meet this goal?

OPTIONS:

           A. Views into an interior building atrium

            B. Potted plants from a different climate zone

           C. Television screens with rotating views of waterfalls

            D. Photographs of surrounding neighborhood architecture

3. A project administrator has gathered documents from all stakeholders started uploading
documents for review. Which step should the administrator take before submitting documents?

OPTIONS:

           A. Schedule performance testing

           B. Conduct a thorough quality check

           C. Take photographs required by features the project pursued

            D. Assign letters of assurance to the appropriate stakeholders



CONTACT

Prometric
1501 South Clinton Street, Canton Crossing Tower, 14th Floor, Baltimore, MD 21224
prometric.com/iwbi

Prometric’s website is available for scheduling, rescheduling, canceling and confirming exam
appointments 24 hours per day. Please see Registration on page 1 for more information.

For more details on Prometric’s internet and enabled ProProctor tool and system requirements please
reference ProProctor User Guide and if you experience technical issues/have questions please contact
ProProctor Contact Support

If you experience difficulty locating a test center or finding available dates, view the list of Prometric
Call Centers to find your local testing center.


International WELL Building Institute PBC
220 Fifth Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10001 | wellcertified.com

Learn more about the WELL AP credential, including how to register for the WELL AP exam and
credential maintenance by visiting wellcertified.com/well-ap and review these FAQs.

IWBI staff are available for questions and concerns regarding WELL AP exam registration, extensions,
WELL AP certificates or credential maintenance.




                                                                                                              20
